# Module 11: Integrating Azure Solution Components using Messaging Services

# Lab: Deploying Messaging Components to Facilitate Communication Between Azure Resources

### Scenario

-

### Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

- Objective 1

### Lab Setup

- *Estimated Time*: 90 minutes

## Before we start

1. Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    - **Username**: Admin

    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd

1. Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    - Microsoft Edge

    - File Explorer

    - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    - [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    - Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    - Windows PowerShell

    - Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Deploy Service Bus Namespace

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1. Sign in to the Azure Portal (https://portal.azure.com).

1. If this is your first time logging in to the Azure portal, you will see a dialog with a tour of the portal. Click Get Started.

#### Task 2: Create Service Bus Namespace

1. Create a new **Service Bus** with the following details:

    - Name: any gloabally name

    - Pricing Tier: Basic

    - New Resource Group: MOD11SBLA

    - Location: East US

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: Create a Service Bus Queue

1. Access the **Service Bus Namespace** you most recently created.

1. Create a new **Queue** with the name *messages*; leave all other options to their default values.

1. Wait for the new queue to be successfully created before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 4: Get Service Bus Connection String

1. Access the *Shared access policy* **RootManageSharedAccessKey**.

1. Locate and record the value in the **Primary Connection String** field. This value will be used later in this lab.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a new Service Bus namespace and recorded a connection string to access queues in the namespace.

## Exercise 2: Create Logic App

#### Task 1: Create Storage Account

1. Create a new **Storage Account** instance with the following details:

    - Name: any globally unique name

    - Deployment model: Resource Manager

    - Account kind: Storage (general purpose v1)

    - Location: East US

    - Replication: Locally-redundant storage (LRS)

    - Performance: Standard

    - Secure Transfer Required: Disabled

    - Resource Group: MOD11SBLA

    - COnfigure virtual networks: Disabled

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

1. Access the **Storage Account** you most recently created.

1. Create a new blob **Container**  with the following details:

    - Name: messageoutput

    - Public Access Level: Blob (anonymous read access for blobs only)

#### Task 2: Create Logic App

1. Create a new **Logic App** with the following details:

    - Name: ServiceBusWorkflow

    - Resource Group: MOD11SBLA

    - Loction: East US

    - Log Analytics: Off

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: Build Logic App Steps

1. Access the **Logic App** you most recently created.



1. In the **Logic App** blade, you will see the default *Logic App Designer* screen. Scroll down and click the **Blank Logic App** option in the **Templates** section.

1. In the **Logic Apps Designer** pane, you will see an open dialog for creating an initial action (trigger).

1. In the **Choose an action** dialog that displays, perform the following actions:

    a. Enter the value **Service Bus** into the search field.

    a. In the search results, select the **Trigger** named **Service Bus - When a message is received in a queue (auto-complete)**.

    a. In the **Connection Name** field on the next pane, enter the value **ServiceBusConnection**.
    
    a. In the list of *Service Bus namespaces*, select the namespace you created earlier in this lab.

    a. In the list of policies, select the **RootManageSharedAccessKey** policy.

    a. Click the **Create** button.

1. In the **When a message is received in a queue (auto-complete)** step that is created, perform the following actions:

    a. In the **Queue name** list, select the **messages** option.

    a. In the **Interval** field, enter the value **30**.

    a. In the **Frequency** field, enter the value **Second**.

1. Click the **+ New Step** button in the designer. Click the **Add an action** button to open the dialog for creating an action.

1. In the **Choose an action** dialog that displays, perform the following actions:

    a. Enter the value **Storage Blob** into the search field.

    a. In the search results, select the **Action** named **Azure Blob Storage - Create Blob**.

    a. In the **Connection Name** field on the next pane, enter the value **StorageConnection**.
    
    a. In the list of *Storage accounts*, select the account you created earlier in this lab.

    a. Click the **Create** button.  

1. In the **Create Blob** step that is created, perform the following actions:

    a. In the **Folder path** field, enter the value **/messageoutput**.

    a. In the **Blob Name** field, enter the value **@concat(triggerBody()?['MessageId'], '.txt')**.

    a. In the **Blob content** field, enter the value **@string(decodeBase64(triggerBody()?['ContentData']))**.

1. At the top of the **Logic Apps Designer** blade, click the **Save** button to persist your workflow.

#### Task 4: Validate Logic App using Node.js

1. Open a new **Cloud Shell** instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt install the **azure** package in Node using NPM:

    ```
    npm install azure
    ```

1. Open the interactive node terminal:

    ```
    node
    ```

1. Import the **azure** module in Node:

    ```
    var azure = require('azure');    
    ```

1. Create a new variable for your Service Bus' connection string replacing the placeholder with the value of your connection string recorded earlier in this lab:

    ```
    var connectionString = '[Service Bus Connection String]';    
    ```

    Make sure you replace the **[Service Bus Connection String]** placeholder with the connection string for your **Service Bus** instance. For example, if your connection string is **Endpoint=sb://testdbns.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=RootManageSharedAccessKey;SharedAccessKey=kXUiFkzSg20TrhUhhyNlqjndV/zKALu1S+nikPqIO8U=**, your command will look like this:

    ```
    var connectionString = 'Endpoint=sb://testdbns.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=RootManageSharedAccessKey;SharedAccessKey=kXUiFkzSg20TrhUhhyNlqjndV/zKALu1S+nikPqIO8U=';    
    ```

1. Create a new client to connect to Service Bus:

    ```
    var serviceBusService = azure.createServiceBusService(connectionString);    
    ```

1. Send a message to Service Bus using the client.

    ```
    serviceBusService.sendQueueMessage('messages', { body: 'Hello World' }, function(error) { console.log(error) });    
    ```

1. In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD11SBLA** *Resource Group* link.

1. In the **MOD11SBLA** blade, select the **Storage Account** you most recently created.

1. In the **Storage account** blade, click the **Blobs** link in the center of the blade.

1. In the **Blob service** blade, click the **messageoutput** container in the list of containers.

1. Observe the newly created blob in your container.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a logic app that is triggered by queue messages from Service Bus.

## Exercise 3: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD11SBLA** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD11SBLA --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1. Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
